EGE UNIVERSITY
COMPUTER ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
501003362023 FUNDAMENTALS OF SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
Spring 2026
TERM PROJECT ASSIGNMENT

Objectives
The assignment's objective is to gain experience in software engineering practices.
Project
●​ Each team is required to choose a project from the descriptions available in the
“Project Topics” folder on the course’s EgeDers page. The selected project topic,
along with team member information, must be submitted under the Project Topic
Selection heading by 18.02.2026. Projects will be undertaken in teams of four
members.
●​ Participation in the project is required for all students enrolled in the course.
Neither re-enrollment in the course nor the absence of compulsory attendance alters
this requirement.
Expected Work
The teams should apply waterfall process model. They are free to use any tool or report
format that may be preferred for its being very suitable for the teams’ specific task. For
example, teams may add a data flow diagram or even a flowchart to their analysis or design if
they think they are necessary to get the job done. “Getting the job done” is however a strict
requirement and it is expected from the team as a pay-back of the freedom that they have been
granted. You will frequently find the instructors act as customers who even do not know what
exactly they should expect from the project, or in general from software or computers. On the
other hand, the team should be motivated to discover and demonstrate what the project may
do for the end users. The teams must perform all kinds of research including moving to the
field and performing interviews with the experts and potential users in the analysis phase of
the project. Teams should submit either videos of the interviews with domain experts and
potential users in CDs, or the telephone numbers and email addresses of the domain experts
along with the requirements taken from them. Competition and confidentiality between the
teams is encouraged as well as cooperation and participation within the teams.
Assessment of Project
Your work will be graded mainly based on your domain analysis and the quality of your
prototype. Therefore, you are strongly advised to explore the domain deeply and come up
with a competitive design that provides the best possible automation. Getting the job done,
although crucial, is not enough for good grades. A team with a superior design will receive
better grades. On the other hand, if you cannot come up with profound solutions to the key
problems, you are not likely to get very good grades, no matter how beautiful (or long) your
reports may be.
1

•​ Every report must include a proper introduction and conclusion, relevant to the report
content.
•​ Report format and neatness must be acceptable as a professional artifact.
The first work expected from the teams is:
REQUIREMENTS (ANALYSIS) REPORT (16.03.2026)
1)​ Introduction
2)​ Identification of Viewpoints
Principal Viewpoints of the System
Description of each Viewpoint
Viewpoint Hierarchy Diagram
3)​ Requirements Definition
Definition of requirements of each viewpoint
4)​ Requirements Classification (considering functionality)
Functional Requirements
Non-functional Requirements
Domain Requirements
5)​ Requirements Classification (considering lifetime)
Volatile Requirements
Enduring Requirements
* Requirements identified in step 3 are to be classified in steps 4 and 5. Please utilize
the provided template below for these steps, from step 3 through step 5.
ID

Viewpoint

Definition of Requirement

Classification
(considering
functionality)

Classification
(considering
lifetime)

6)​ [OPTIONAL] Requirements interview (online) with stakeholders (you should
either record the interview on CD or put a section for the list of requirements taken
from each expert along with his/her email and telephone number into your report)
7)​ Requirements Prioritization and Negotiation
8)​ Requirements Traceability Matrix
9)​ Use Cases of the Main Scenarios
●​ Three primary use cases should suffice. Ensure that these use cases are
substantial and integral to your system, avoiding trivial functions like "login"
and "register." Focus on the core functionalities that define your system's
primary purpose.
●​ Use cases should only contain these sections: inputs, actors, action, outputs,
and exceptions.
2

10)​Domain Model as a UML diagram (Note that the domain model and class diagram
are distinct UML diagrams. For this report, we specifically require the domain
model and not the class diagram.)
11)​Conclusion
The second work expected from the teams is:
PROTOTYPE PRESENTATION (10.05.2026)
The teams are required to detail the architecture of their system and present the culmination of
their design efforts and prototype implementation (demo) as a short (no more than 15 min.)
presentation and demonstration. This comprehensive presentation will encompass an
explanation of the system's architecture, an overview of critical UI design choices, testing
strategies and a demonstration of the prototype. We expect to be able to understand your
system design clearly from your presentation, so you should include anything you think is
necessary to achieve this.
Architecture Overview
●​ Describe your system's architecture. Specify if your design follows one of the
established generic architectural patterns or if a new hybrid model has been
developed. Highlight the main components of your architecture, the subsystems
within these components, and provide concise explanations for each. Discuss how
components and subsystems are interconnected.
●​ Illustrate your system's architecture with a block diagram, showcasing
components, subsystems, and their relationships.
●​ Highlight the connection between your architectural design and its
implementation, showing how the theoretical design becomes the practical system.
UI Design Overview
●​ Explain what criteria are taken into consideration in terms of UI design principles,
information presentation and interaction styles during the design of the UI.
●​ Provide examples from your implementation, supplemented with corresponding
screenshots, for each criterion.
Testing Overview
●​ Include the test cases (development or release testing) you have taken into
consideration.
●​ Ensure that test cases are related to the specified use case(s) in the project topics
document.
●​ Provide an overview of your test cases, detailing the elements being evaluated, the
inputs used, the expected outcomes, and the resulting outputs.
●​ Incorporate relevant code snippets utilized during the testing process into your
presentation.

3

Prototype Demonstration
●​ The prototype should cover the main use cases of your project and indicate how
the user interface will function.
●​ Implement all aspects of the user interface.
●​ Implement only the use case specified in the project topics document. (It's not
necessary to implement use cases like login, register, etc.)
●​ Provide a clear message, such as "This function has not been implemented yet,"
for any unaddressed use cases within the prototype.
Team Work
●​

The project will be undertaken in teams consisting of four (4) members formed by the
students themselves. Team changes are not tolerated.

●​

Teams are encouraged to decide on their division of labor and decision taking
mechanism as soon as possible. They may elect a team leader or may choose to
employ more democratic ways of taking decisions.

●​

When the reports are handed in, they should be accompanied by a statement, signed by
the team members, stating the percentage contribution of each team member. For
example, in an equally contributing team of four, all contributions would be labeled
25%. Unequal contributions should be clearly stated and agreed so that marks can be
adjusted.

●​

If any disagreements or challenges arise within the team regarding any aspect of the
project, it is crucial to bring these to the attention of your lab instructor immediately,
and certainly before the announcement of grades. Furthermore, a signed statement
from all team members detailing the specific issue must be submitted.

●​

Group work should be the result of collaboration only within the group.

Late Submissions
Late work will receive the following penalty:
●​ 1 day late – 10% penalty; more than 1 day late – 10% per day
penalty.

4

